# RDU Four Step Model

The repository contains a complete (albeit highly simplified, and not recommended for planning purposes) four-step model for the central Research Triangle region (Orange, Durham, and Wake counties), North Carolina, intended to teach the structure and application of four-step models. It is designed to run in less than an hour (often much less) on consumer-grade computer hardware, using only open-source software.

The entire model is run from and contained in the `run_model.qmd` file. The different scenarios for regional growth are in the Excel files. Each of these files has three tabs: one has marginals by household size, income, number of workers, and number of vehicles, for each tract in the Triangle. The second has counts of jobs in different [LODES](https://lehd.ces.census.gov) categories, and the third has geographic information about the tracts (generally this does not need to be edited). The model ships with three scenarios: a current-conditions scenario, a 2025 projection based on a simple cohort-component model, and a scenario where growth is instead concentrated in the most urban tracts.

It requires only an installation of R and a [Quarto editor](https://quarto.org/docs/get-started/) (tested with RStudio and VSCode); all other dependencies will be installed automatically. Instructions for running the model are embedded in the `run_model.qmd` file. The core of the model runs using the [Baby's First Four Step Model](https://github.com/mattwigway/BabysFirstFourStepModel); there is some documentation of model form and assumptions there.
